ReScript retreat blogpost (#895)
rescript-lang/rescript-lang.org: _blogposts/2025-03-17-retreats.mdx

- Intro to compiler development, by Cristiano Calcagno ([@ccrisccris](https://x.com/ccrisccris))
  - The full talk is also available here: [Youtube Link](https://youtu.be/sQinTXDynew?si=AihxJBQDEyzMCvFz).
- Talk about editor tooling, by Gabriel Nordeborn ([@\_\_\_zth\_\_\_](https://x.com/___zth___))

## Group work

<Image
  src="/static/blog/rescript_retreat_2024_group_work.jpg"
  caption="Some core contributors thinking hard"
  withShadow="true"
/>

Our contributors split up in multiple small groups of 2-4 people. Every group had a specific topic assigned:

- New Build System (Codename rewatch)
- rescript-lang.org Playground Output
- ReScript Core and how to include it in the compiler
- loops, foreach, iterators
- Syntax, JSX

## Discussions

We also did group discussions about how to elevator pitch ReScript and about ReScript's roadmap.

The full results of this discussions and the group work can be read at the ReScript forum: https://forum.rescript-lang.org/t/ann-rescript-retreat-roadmap-summary-2024/5275. But that is the past, have a look at the following section to see how far we have come:

### Results

> Almost a year later, most of the things that got started at the retreat, got finished or at at least very far in development. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Almost a year later, most of the initiatives started at the retreat have either been completed or significantly advanced in development. 
```

- We moved the new "Core" standard library into the compiler. Only needs some minor tweaks and documentation.

> - We are getting closer into having "rewatch" be our new main build system, it should now even work correctly in "dev" mode.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- We are getting closer to making "rewatch" our new main build system, with many improvements and fixes already in place.
```
